What is a Character set?
Like every other language, 
‘C’ also has its own character set.
A program is a set of instructions that,
when executed, generate an output.
The data that is processed by a program consists of various characters and symbols. 
The output generated is also a combination of characters and symbols.

A character set in ‘C’ is divided into,

Letters
Numbers
Special characters
White spaces (blank spaces)
A compiler always ignores the use of characters,
but it is widely used for formatting the data. 
Following is the character set in ‘C’ programming:

1) Letters

Uppercase characters (A-Z)
Lowercase characters (a-z)

2) Numbers

All the digits from 0 to 9

3) White spaces

Blank space
New line
Carriage return
Horizontal tab

4) Special characters

Special characters in ‘C’ are shown in the given table,
Special Character	Description
, (comma)	{ (opening curly bracket)
. (period)	} (closing curly bracket)
; (semi-colon)	[ (left bracket)
: (colon)	] (right bracket)
? (question mark)	( (opening left parenthesis)
‘ (apostrophe)	) (closing right parenthesis)
” (double quotation mark)	& (ampersand)
! (exclamation mark)	^ (caret)
|(vertical bar)	+ (addition)
/ (forward slash)	– (subtraction)
\ (backward slash)	* (multiplication)
~ (tilde)	/ (division)
_ (underscore)	> (greater than or closing angle bracket)
$ (dollar sign)	< (less than or opening angle bracket)
% (percentage sign)	# (hash sign)

Keywords and Identifiers
In ‘C’ every word can be either a keyword or an identifier.

Keywords have fixed meanings,
and the meaning cannot be changed. 
They act as a building block of a ‘C’ program. 
There are a total of 32 keywords in ‘C’. 
Keywords are written in lowercase letters.

Following table represents the keywords in ‘C’-


Keywords in C Programming Language
auto,double,int,struct,break,else,long,switch,case,enum,register,typedef,char,extern,return,union,
const,short,float,unsigned,continue,for,signed,void,default,goto,sizeof,volatile,do,if,static,while

An identifier is nothing but a name assigned to an element in a program. 
Example, name of a variable, function, etc. 
Identifiers in C language are the user-defined names consisting of ‘C’ standard character set. 
As the name says, 
identifiers are used to identify a particular element in a program. 
Each identifier must have a unique name. Following rules must be followed for identifiers:

1.The first character must always be an alphabet or an underscore.
2.It should be formed using only letters, numbers, or underscore.
3.A keyword cannot be used as an identifier.
4.It should not contain any whitespace character.
5.The name must be meaningful.



Basics usage of these keywords –

if, else, switch, case, default – Used for decision control programming structure.

break – Used with any loop OR switch case.

int, float, char, double, long – These are the data types and used during variable declaration.

for, while, do – types of loop structures in C.

void – One of the return type.

goto – Used for redirecting the flow of execution.

auto, signed, const, extern, register, unsigned – defines a variable.

return – This keyword is used for returning a value.

continue – It is generally used with for, while and dowhile loops, when compiler encounters this statement it performs the next iteration of the loop, skipping rest of the statements of current iteration.

enum – Set of constants.

sizeof – It is used to know the size.

struct, typedef  – Both of these keywords used in structures (Grouping of data types in a single record).

union – It is a collection of variables, which shares the same memory location and memory storage.

volatile 